h2. Installing Maven

Download "latest Maven":http://maven.apache.org/download.html unzip it and add it to your path:

<pre>
# go to the place you want to install maven to
cd ~/Library
# download latest maven version
curl -O http://apache.autinity.de/maven/binaries/apache-maven-2.2.1-bin.zip
# unzip the archive
unzip apache-maven-2.2.1-bin.zip
# add a symlink for convenience
ln -s apache-maven-2.2.1 maven
# add maven executables to the PATH
echo export PATH="~/Library/maven/bin":\$PATH >> ~/.profile
# open a new bash and check maven is running
mvn --version
</pre>

h2. Creating a Maven webapp 

Now that Maven is running on your system, you can use it to create a standard webapp: 

<pre>
# go to the workspace
cd ~/Documents/workspace/
# let maven create a webapp
mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=de.phoet -DartifactId=tomcat-logging -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-webapp
# go to the webapp
cd tomcat-logging/
# let maven do the work
mvn clean package
</pre>

Maven is a stupid fuck, so it will create your application with Java 1.4 compatibility by default. You need to fix this in the _pom.xml_ by changing the compiler plugin:

bc.. 	<build>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
				<artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>2.0.2</version>
				<configuration>
					<source>1.6</source>
					<target>1.6</target>
				</configuration>
			</plugin>
			... 

h2. Running from the command line

You can run the example directly from the command line through Maven:

<pre>
mvn jetty:run &
open http://localhost:8080/tomcat-logging/	
</pre>

The Maven Jetty plugin is configured (no, this is no default!) to pick up changes to the sources every 10 seconds. The plugin does not do hot code replacement but instead restarts the whole servlet context, which is very slow. So if you play around with the code, you should consider doing it within Eclipse.

h2. MVN for Eclipse integration (not recommended)

Maven has an embedded task to build up an Eclipse _.classpath_ and _.project_ file from an existing _pom.xml_ :

<pre>
mvn eclipse:eclipse
</pre>

The resulting Eclipse configuration has some problems. You have to set the M2_REPO classpath variable by hand to resolve dependencies properly and it sets the Java compiler to Java 1.4, which sucks ass very much. It also sets a bad JRE System Library which you should reset to the default.

h2. Better with Eclipse plugins

If you want a better solution, you need to install some Eclipse plugins that enable you to run the example form within Eclipse.
 
Install "m2eclipse":http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/sites/m2e and "run jetty run":http://run-jetty-run.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/updatesite from their update sites.

Restart Eclipse and import existing Project _tomcat-logging_ into Workspace.

Go to _Debug Configurations_ and use the _tomcat-logging_ launcher.

You should be able to open "the servlet":http://localhost:8080/tomcat-logging/ in your browser.

h2. Configure log4j at runtime

Run the servlet and change something in the _tomcat-logging-log4j.xml_ configuration file. The behavior of log4j should change while the servlet is running. 

h2. More

Have a look at the "Mavenrepository":http://mvnrepository.com if you are looking for any libs.
